bashara senior political analyst for Al
jazer we're going to try and cross to H
Abdul Hamid who joins us from rala H we
had to end our conversation with our
colleague Charles statford because we
heard gunshots you're also out of vision
because of safety reasons where are you
and what's
happening well it's certainly a very
tense situation here in Manara Square
which is literally the heart of uh
ramala City now we going to take you
back to how it all started uh about an
hour ago there was a large size of
protesters who came to the square we
believe that they were angered of the
pictures they had seen coming out of
Gaza of that hospital hit and that large
number I can come back and vision I
think at the moment uh large number of
uh casualties there um then they were
chanting at a certain point they were
chanting that the people want the fall
of the president referring to president
Mahmud Abbas who at this moment is said
to be returning from Aman where he he
went ahead of the meeting with the US
president uh tomorrow that seems it's
not happening anymore um we don't know
what happened but then all of a sudden
we did hear stun grenades heavy tear gas
and that's one of the reason I am out of
vision is because the fumes are coming
all the way up here and then we did hear
some uh live fire we presume that it was
up in the air um at the moment and we
don't know who were who exactly uh was
firing uh we as you can hear now this is
another stun grenade and maybe our
camera is showing you that the
protesters have actually all dispersed
to all the side roads that lead to this
uh Manara Square it's certainly a very
difficult moment but it's not surprising
uh I've been here for a few days the the
the tension was simmering was bubbling
people were getting more and more angry
at what they've seen happening in Gaza
everybody glued to their tablets to
their smartphones following very closely
events in Gaza and also very angry at uh
the Palestinian leadership president
Mahmud Abbas having been uh more absent
then present he has not appeared in
public he has not spoken or addressed
the pal Palestinian people all they
heard from him is through press releases
that came through the official news
agency Waffa so certainly there was a
lot of pent up frustration that
frustration existed well before this
escalation started uh people in the
across the occupied West Bank being
continuously targeted either by the uh
Israeli soldiers uh coming under a lot
of pressure from them also being being
uh victim to uh settler violence more
than 200 people had died across the
occupied West Bank before all this
started and it continues now we are
hearing more gunfire I I cannot actually
appear at the window to tell you what is
happening but you might be hearing it uh
on camera now and I'm told to come in it
is quite intense at this point and you
these flashes you see on camera we
believe are St uh sound grenades but at
this particular moment seems to be quite
intense hter are you safe I am safe to
continue from where I I am safe to
continue from where I am uh away from
the window but it's impossible for now
to reach because it's literally
happening below us at this particular
point and this has been the Rhythm the
whole for the past hour and a half of so
you had moments of calm and then you
have these outbursts um but it's very
difficult for us from here to see what
has happened we are also hearing that
similar protests are happening in jine
and in other uh cities and towns across
the occupied West Bank the news is
coming into US bits by bits so at the
moment the situation the full picture is
quite fluid to us um but we have to
underline that the protest were not
called by Hamas that is very important
this is popular Palestinian anger
frustration coming to the surface and
exploding and we have to also underline
that there are no Israeli soldiers here
um so if it is an exchange of gunfire or
just gunfire in the air at this point I
cannot confirm to you uh this is
Palestinian on Palestinian uh Israeli
forces are not in the area here at all
and they rarely come inside uh ramala if
not for maybe nightly range or when
they're after uh someone but certainly a
very serious escalation adding more fuel
to the fire in an already explosive
situation all across the occupied West
Bank hter can you explain the geography
of where you are if it's a Central
Square are there multiple streets that
lead into the one location and how
difficult is it to control the people
inside if things are as tense as they
are well it's I mean we have to realize
that this was not a huge amount of
protesters who had come to the square
maybe a few hundred and this is
something that has been happening uh
quite regular the protests have been
picking up momentus momentum over the
past uh few days uh ramala is quite a
busy City it's quite it's quite
populated it's the largest city
in uh the West Bank and really Manara is
the Manara square is the heart of it you
have all the businesses you have all the
markets all around it it's where
everything uh happens um now difficulty
to reach it is not very difficult uh to
come out of it at the moment uh as you
can see I don't know if you can see from
our camera you it's pointed towards one
of the side streets uh we saw some
protesters going to that area and then
some protesters also going in all the
different areas I do not have from my
vantage point now a full vision of the
square uh but I'm hearing uh quite loud
noises and as you can hear also
continuous uh sound grenades certainly a
lot of tear gas that we can smell all
the way up here um and we haven't
actually heard from the Palestinian
leadership in all of that if if not that
president abas has uh refused now to
meet with the US President Joe Biden uh
that was because of what had happened in
Gaza and that bombing of U the hospital
there he had cut short that visit and
should be on his way back uh we don't
know whether that would be tonight or uh
whether that would be tomorrow but
certainly him coming back to uh the
occupied West Bank at this particular
time is also a matter of political
survival uh for the president who has
been under a lot of pressure not just
now but uh for many
years a lot of Palestinians being quite
frustrated by the lack of improvement in
their lives president Mahmud Abbas has
been always been an advocate of the Oslo
Accords for most of the population here
in the West Bank the Osa course is
something that happened well before they
were born they haven't seen any fruit of
it they don't know what peace means and
they don't even believe in it so it was
been very difficult for president abas
uh to continue uh telling you know
calling uh for I'm just checking now
what is happening we see a bit of Chaos
in that street our C our camera is
pointing at at it uh maybe more
protesters coming I mean the news is
probably spreading all around grala and
people can hear certainly the sound of
continuous explosions and gunfire uh so
it might very well be that we have a
situation where people will be coming
down to the streets in Anger uh maybe in
Anger also at the Palestinian uh
security forces and their stand many
would tell you that the Palestinians
Security Forces should be standing along
with them and probably protesting along
with them rather than being against them
I was just speaking to uh one uh
Palestinian uh person here a lady who
told me that this was a very sad day
that this not should not be happening
especially at this particular moment
that finding these divisions among
Palestinian will only make a bad
situation
worse okay thank you very much well
leave it they hter